(pinging)
(women vocalizing)
(instrumental music playing)
(music ends)
MAN: 60 knots?
No way, Barnes.
The Reds don't have
anything that fast.
Checked it twice.
I mean, it's a real
unique signature.
No cavitation,
no reactor noise.
It doesn't even
sound like screws.
(machine humming)
What the hell is it?
I'll tell you what it's not.
It's not one of ours.
Sir, contact changing
to heading 214.
Speed...
80 knots.
MAN: Still diving.
Depth, 900...
Still diving.
Depth, 900 feet.
Port clearance, 150 feet
from the cliff wall, sir.
It's getting tight in here.
Yeah? We can still
give them a haircut.
Helm, come right to 069er,
down five degrees.
Coming right 069er,
down five degrees, aye.
Portside clearance,
120 feet.
Narrowing to 75.
Sir, we have
a proximity warning light.
It's too damn close.
We've got to back off.
BARNES:
Sir, range to contact, 200.
Contact just jigged
to bearing 260
and accelerated to...
to 130 knots, sir.
Nothing goes 130.
Sir, range to contact,
100 yards.
80 yards, sir!
60!
It's turbulence.
We're in its wake.
Helm, all stop.
Full right rudder.
Hydraulics failure.
Planes not responding, sir.
MAN: Auxiliary power.
Monitors back.
(beeping)
Hydraulics restored, sir.
Oh, my God.
MAN: Fire in sonar!
Collision alarm!
-(alarm blaring)
-Fire control to sonar!
Let's get out of here!
Lighten her up, Charlie!
Torpedo room
is flooded, sir!
Blow all tanks!
Blow all the tanks!
Blow everything!
All back full!
Answering. All back full.
Give me a damage report.
What's our depth?
Passing 1,400, sir.
Main's forward tanks
are ruptured!
Still descending, sir.
1,450.
Passing 1,500, sir.
Still descending.
We're too deep
to pump auxiliaries.
Passing 1,550.
Still descending, sir.
We're losin' her.
Passing 1,600, sir,
and still descending.
-Launch the buoy.
-Passing 1,650.
-Passing 1,700, sir.
-Launching!
(beeps)
(electricity crackling)
(alarm blaring)
Come on! Give me your hand!
(screaming)
(beeping)
MAN (over radio):
Benthic Explorer.
Salvor 1 on final. Over.
Copy you, Salvor 1.
This is Benthic Explorer.
You're cleared to land.
-Hey.
-Yeah?
They're coming.
This, uh, could get pretty ugly.
Yeah. It does not
look good at all.
Oh, no. Look who's with 'em.
Queen bitch of the universe.
MAN: Sonny, how you doing?
SONNY: I got two more welds
on this bypass valve.
MAN: No light from the surface.
How deep are they?
McBride?
1,700 feet.
I need them
to go below 2,000.
No problem.
They can do that.
So that's it?
You just cheerfully turn
the whole thing over
to the goon squad?
Look, I was told to cooperate.
I'm cooperating.
Kirkhill, you're pathetic.
Get Brigman on the line.
Hippy, get me Bud.
-MAN: Catfish.
-Yeah.
Get them old buns up here
and give me a hand.
CATFISH: Hang on.
I'll be up there in a second.
Hey, you guys are
milking that job.
Yeah. It's because
we love freezing our butts off
out here for you so much.
MAN: Bring me another hammer!
(hammering)
-Hey, Bud!
-Yeah.
Hippy's on the bitch box!
It's a call from topside.
That new company man.
-Kirkhill?
-Yeah.
That guy don't know
his butt from a rat hole.
Hey, Harry, do me a favor,
will you?
Square away this mud hose.
Get rid of some of
these empty sacks.
This place is starting to
look like my apartment.
HARRY: You got it, boss.
MAN: Bud, pick up
the topside line. It's urgent.
I'm comin'. I'm comin'.
Jesus, keep your pantyhose on.
(buzzing)
Brigman here.
Yeah, Kirkhill,
what's going on?
At 0922 local time today,
an American nuclear submarine,
the USS Montana
with 156 men aboard,
went down
about 22 miles from here.
Damn.
There's been no contact
with the sub since then.
The cause of the incident
is not known.
Your company's authorized
the navy's use of this facility
for a rescue operation,
code-named "Operation Salvo."
You want us to
search for the sub?
No. We know where it is,
but she's in
2,000 feet of water,
and we can't reach her.
We need divers
to enter the sub
and search for survivors,
if any.
Don't you guys
have your own stuff
for this kind of thing?
By the time we get
our rescue submersibles here,
the storm front
will be right on us.
You can get your rig in
under the storm
and be on site in 15 hours.
That makes you
our best option right now.
Why should we risk our butts
for something like this?
I have been authorized to
offer you all special bonuses
equivalent to three times
normal dive pay.
Yes, sir, buddy!
Hell, for triple time,
I'd eat Beanie.
They could set me on fire
and put me out
with horse piddle.
Look, I don't know
what kind of deal
you guys made
with the company,
but my people
are not qualified for this.
We're oil workers.
-This is a paycheck, man.
-(clamoring)
Just shut up! Hold it down.
This is Lieutenant Coffey.
He will transfer down to you
with a SEAL team
and supervise the operation.
You can send down
whoever you like, Commodore,
but I'm the tool-pusher
on this rig,
and when it comes to
the safety of these people,
there's me and then
there's God, understand?
If things get dicey,
I'm pulling the plug.
I think we're all on
the same wavelength, Brigman.
Now let's get the wellhead
uncoupled, shall we?
All right.
Let's get ready to move.
Let's take it about
five degrees left, all right?
Roger. Five degrees left, Bud.
Plot these numbers
to our position.
I need to know when the...
Yes, sir.
Well, it's official,
sports fans.
They're calling it
Hurricane Frederick,
and it's going to be
making our lives
real interesting
in a few hours.
Fred, huh?
I don't know, man.
I think hurricanes should be
named after women, don't you?
(panting)
I can't believe
you're letting them do this.
Hi, Linds.
I thought you were in Houston.
I was. Now I'm here.
Only here isn't
where I left it, is it, Bud?
It wasn't up to me.
Jesus, we were
that close to proving
a submersible drilling
platform could work.
I can't believe you let them
grab my rig!
-Your rig?
-My rig.
I designed the damn thing.
Yeah, and Benthic Petroleum
paid for it.
So as long as they're holding
the pink slip...
(whistles) I go
where they tell me.
I had a lot riding on this,
and they bought you,
didn't they?
More like
rented you cheap!
I'm switching off now.
Bye-bye.
Oh, okay, Virgil, you wiener!
You never could
stand up to a fight.
Bye-bye.
Virgil?
God, I hate that bitch.
Probably shouldn't have
married her, then, huh?
MAN: Get it stable!
Easy!
MAN: Roger, Cab 3.
You're clear to launch.
Hang on, gentlemen.
MAN: She's clear!
Touchdown. Crowd goes wild.
Explorer, this is Cab 3.
We are styling.
How you boys doing back there?
Great.
LINDSEY: Explorer, this is Cab 3
starting our descent
along the umbilical.
MAN: Roger that, Cab 3.
Good luck.
LINDSEY: Luck is not a factor.
♪ And I've been from Tucson
to Tucumcari ♪
♪ Tehachapi to Tonopah ♪
♪ Driven every kind of rig
that's ever been made ♪
♪ Driven the back roads
so I wouldn't get weighed ♪
LINDSEY: Deep Core, Deep Core,
this is Cab 3 on final approach.
Roger, Cab 3.
Is that you, Lindsey?
None other.
Oh, no.
(clanging)
(creaking)
Howdy, boys.
Hey, Lindsey.
I'll be damned!
Y'all shouldn't be down here,
sweet thing.
Might run your stockings.
(chuckles)
The bad news is,
we got eight hours
in this can blowing down,
and the worse news is,
it's gonna take us
three weeks to decompress later.
We've all been fully briefed,
Mrs. Brigman.
Just don't call me that, okay?
I hate that.
All right.
Well, what would you
like us to call you?
Sir?
(scoffs)
Okay, here we go.
Y'all start equalizing... now.
(hissing)
Let's watch each other
closely for signs of HPNS.
High-pressure
nervous syndrome.
Muscle tremors,
usually in the hands first,
nausea,
increased excitability...
Disorientation.
♪ And a partridge
in a pear tree ♪
(clears throat)
About one person in 20
can't handle it.
They just go buggo.
Look, they've all made
runs to this depth.
They're checked out.
No, I understand that.
What I'm saying is
that it's impossible
to predict
just who's susceptible.
They checked out.
These guys are SEALs?
Yeah. These guys ain't so tough.
I've fought guys
plenty tougher than 'em.
Now do we get to hear
how you could have been
a contender?
Hey! Hey!
You see this?
Yeah.
They used to call
this the hammer.
Aah.
Y'all are done to a turn
and ready to serve.
Everybody okay?
They're really very sweet.
Hey! I don't remember
putting a wall here.
How you doing, Jammer?
Pretty good.
How are you, little lady?
I'm okay.
I want a full check
on their gear.
Yes, sir.
These guys are about as much fun
as a tax audit.
You got that right.
Hippy, you're gonna
give that rat a disease.
HIPPY: Hi, Linds.
Well, well. Mrs. Brigman.
Not for long.
You never did like
being called that, did you?
Not even when
it meant something.
Is that One Night in flatbed?
Yeah. Who else? Here. Say hi.
Hey, One Night, it's Lindsey.
Oh, hi, Lindsey.
So what are you doing
down here, hot rod?
You need me.
Nobody knows the systems
on this rig better than I do.
Once you're disconnected
from the Explorer,
you guys are on your own for
however long this storm lasts.
What if something
was to happen
after the surface
support clears off?
What would you have done?
Wow. You're right.
Us poor, dumb old boys
might have had to
think for ourselves.
It could have been a disaster.
You wanna know what I think?
Jesus, look where
this thing is set.
You want to know what I think?
Not particularly.
I think you were
worried about me.
Then that must be it.
No, seriously. I think you were.
Come on. It's okay. It's okay.
You can admit it.
I was worried about the rig.
I've got over four years
invested in this project.
Yeah. You only had three years
invested in me.
Well, you have to
have priorities.
Oh, shit.
ONE NIGHT:
Cuttin' you loose, Bud.
BUD:
Okay, One Night, stay clear.
We're setting her down.
Touchdown.
This is us.
We're sitting right on the edge
of the Cayman Trough.
This is the Montana,
300 meters away,
70 meters below us.
We think she slid down the wall
and now sits here
on this outcropping.
So we're gonna have to
drop straight down here.
This tell us how much
radiation we're getting?
Whoa, whoa! I'm not
going near no radiation.
-No way.
-Ah, Hippy, you pussy.
Yeah? What good is the money?
Six months later,
your dick drops off.
(laughing)
What is your problem, huh?
On this dive,
you'll do absolutely nothing
without direct orders
from me,
and you'll follow those orders
without discussion.
Is that clear?
All right. I want everyone
finished prep
and ready to get wet
in 15 minutes.
All right. Let's throw it
in the water.
Keep it coming.
Hippy, throw me one of
'em cyalumes, please.
-Yeah, sure.
-Good. Good.
Excuse me.
What is all this stuff?
Fluid-breathing system.
We just got them.
You use it
when you go really deep.
How deep?
-Deep.
-How deep?
It's classified.
Anyway, you breathe liquid
so you can't get compressed.
The pressure doesn't get you.
You mean you got liquid
in your lungs?
Oxygenated
fluorocarbon emulsion.
Bullshit.
Check this out.
-Can I borrow your rat?
-What-what are you doing?
-Hey, hey. Nah, nah, nah.
-You're gonna kill her!
It's okay,
I've done this myself.
Oh, man!
What, are you just drowning her?
He's gonna be fine.
I've breathed this myself.
It's gonna be fine.
No, man. She's gonna drown!
Look. She's freaking out!
Just going through
a normal adjustment period.
Normal? Does this
look normal to you?
She's gonna drown.
He's taking the fluid
into his lungs.
There he goes.
Still has a bit of anxiety here.
Now he's starting to relax.
He's breathing fine.
See his chest moving?
He's getting
plenty of oxygen.
Ha. Damn rat's
breathing that shit.
That is no bullshit,
hands down,
the goddamnedest thing
I ever saw.
See, the fluid's harder
to push in and out than air.
It's a little more work
to breathe.
He's doing fine.
He's diggin' it.
She's doin' it.
She ain't diggin' it.
All right.
Let her out now. Now!
Okay. All right.
Okay, now we let the fluid
drain from his lungs.
-There we go.
-All right. Give her here.
-Give her.
-Here's your rat.
See? He's fine.
It's a she.
Going over the wall.
Coming to bearing 065.
Flatbed, you online?
ONE NIGHT: 10-4, Lindsey.
We read you loud and clear.
Starting our descent.
Divers, how you doin'?
MAN: Everybody's okay so far.
ONE NIGHT: Hang on, boys.
It's all downhill from here.
Hey, how deep's
the drop-off here?
This here's
a bottomless pit, baby.
Two and a half miles
straight down.
Cab 3, it's Bud. You online?
Cab 3, check.
I'm right behind you.
Cab 1, do you see it yet?
Magnetometer's twitching,
but I don't see anything yet.
Hang on.
I wanna test my strobes.
COFFEY: Cab 1,
do you have a visual?
Cab 1, do you copy?
Uh, yeah. Roger that. Found it.
COFFEY: Cab 1,
radiation readings.
Neutron counter's
not showing much.
All right. Just continue
forward and along the hull.
Copy that. Continuing forward.
You want me to get shots
of everything, yes?
COFFEY: Roger that.
Document as much as you can,
but please keep moving.
Remember, we're on
a tight timeline.
LINDSEY: Copy that.
COFFEY: Coming up
to the midship's hatch.
Do you see it, Cab 3?
Yeah. Roger. I got it.
How do you want me?
-Just hold above it.
-Roger. Holding.
Okay, it's all yours,
Lieutenant.
All right, A-team.
Let's do it.
Okay, Perry, Hippy,
let's get that ROV launched.
Okay, we're on it, boss.
Go.
(whirring)
HIPPY: Little Geek
is on the case.
Monk here, sir.
We got the midship's
outer hatch open.
We're goin' in.
LINDSEY: Coffey, these are
the missile hatches, right?
COFFEY: That's right.
Looks like a couple
of the hatches have sprung.
Radiation's nominal.
Warheads must still be intact.
How many are there?
24 trident missiles.
Eight MIRVs per missile.
That's 192 warheads, Coffey.
How powerful are they?
Your MIRV is a tactical nuke.
Uh, 50 kilotons nominal yield,
say, five times Hiroshima.
Just set it down here.
ONE NIGHT: Copy that.
There's a breach
in the pressure hold.
That's where we go in.
-ONE NIGHT: We're solid.
-Let's go.
All right. Let's go.
Okay, let's just take it
slow and easy going in.
Don't take any chances.
MAN: Where are we, Coffey?
This is the forward
berthing compartment.
This way.
Come on. Let's keep up.
All right. Up this way
to the control center.
(thudding)
(grunting)
It's jammed.
Give me a hand.
Get up here
with that pry bar.
It's moving. Pull!
Jesus.
Oh, God.
All right. We knew
we were gonna see this.
Just move on.
-Jesus.
-Come on, Jammer. Let's go.
Okay. Let's stay cool.
Everybody stay cool.
We can't help these guys,
but we might find
somebody further in.
(breathes sharply)
Hey, Jammer. You okay?
Mm-hmm.
How you guys doing?
I'm dealing.
Triple time sounded like
a lot of money, Bud.
It ain't.
We're here.
Let's get it done, okay?
Brigman, take your men
and continue aft.
Split up into two teams.
Come on. Let's get moving.
We head back in 14 minutes.
Let's go.
-You still with me, Jammer?
-Where are we?
Missile compartment.
Those are the launch tubes.
Shit!
Shit, shit, shit!
Hey, Jammer.
Hey, hey, hey!
You okay?
Deep and slow, big guy.
Deep and slow.
Just breathe easy.
Everybody's dead!
They're all dead.
Okay. I'm taking
you back out. Let's go.
No. I'm okay. I'm okay.
I just can't go any further in.
Okay, Jammer. No problem.
You stay right here.
I've got to check out
this compartment, all right?
We'll stay in voice contact.
You hold onto the end
of this rope here.
You have any problem whatsoever,
you tug twice.
-I got it.
-Pull it hard.
Five more minutes.
Just relax, all right?
You'll be okay.
-Okay.
-Be right back.
(heavy breathing)
(metallic clanging)
BUD: You still reading me okay,
big guy?
Read you fine, Bud.
Okay. Just a few more minutes.
There's a couple compartments
up ahead that might have air.
Okay. No problem.
We got to be sure, right?
Hang on, Jammer.
You just hold on to that...
Shit!
Bud?
Bud, can you hear me?
Bud? Bud?
Goddamn it!
(hyperventilating)
Oh, Jesus!
(breathing slows)
Bud, is that you?
Hang on, Jammer.
Lew, Cat, hurry up!
On the double!
I'm on my way.
(gurgling)
Jammer!
(groaning)
-What's the problem?
-He's convulsing!
It's his mixture.
Too much oxygen.
Got to get the O2 cut down!
Turn him over!
Crank it down, man!
You're losin' him!
All right. We gotta get him
out of here. Let's go.
Let's move it.
Easy, big fella.
That's it.
One Night,
do you see the divers?
-Are they out yet?
-ONE NIGHT: Negative, Lindsey.
Haven't seen hide nor hair.
Let's give 'em
two minutes more max,
and then I'll sound
a diver recall.
(thudding)
(whooshing)
BUD: Lindsey, do you copy?
Meet me at flatbed.
This is a diver emergency.
Linds, do you copy?
Uh, yeah, copy you, Bud.
I'm on my way.
(exhales sharply)
Look, I'm just a medic,
which is mostly about
patching holes.
This type of thing, it's...
There's not much I can do.
A coma could last hours or days.
(beeps)
So you didn't get
anything on the cameras.
No. I didn't get
a picture of it.
What about the video?
No. We lost power right then.
Look, I just don't wanna
talk about this, okay?
Fine. Be that way.
Look, I don't know
what I saw, Bud, okay?
Coffey wants to call it
a Russian submersible, fine,
it's a Russian submersible.
No problem.
Yeah, but you think
it was something else.
What?
One of ours?
No.
Well, whose then?
Come on, Lindsey, talk to me.
Look, Jammer saw
something down there,
something that scared
the hell out of him.
His mixture got screwed up.
Jammer panicked.
He pranged his regulator,
and his mixture got screwed up.
But what did he see
that made him panic?
Well, what do you think he saw?
I don't know.
Did any of you see it?
No, sir.
The Brigman woman saw it.
It could have been
a Russian bogey.
Oh.
CINCLANTFLT's
gonna go apeshit.
Two Russian attack subs,
Etango and Evicto,
were tracked within
50 miles of here.
Now they don't know
where the hell they are.
Okay.
I haven't got any choice.
I'm confirming you
to go to phase two.
You'll recover
one warhead, arm it,
and wait for
further instructions.
We got a problem with that?
Negative, sir.
(whistles) Better come on.
(indistinct chatter)
-Shh!
-Turn it up, folks.
Sources have not
confirmed any reports
that the Montana encountered
a Soviet fast-attack sub
prior to its sinking.
and the Kremlin continues
to deny any involvement.
Oh, that's us.
That's us, man.
MAN: There's the Explorer.
...participating in
the recovery operation.
There is a tremendous
amount of activity.
With Cuba only 80 miles away,
the massive buildup
of American forces
has drawn official protest
from Havana and Moscow.
Russian and Cuban trawlers,
undoubtedly
surveillance vessels,
have been circling the area,
and Soviet aircraft
have repeatedly...
-This sucks.
-...been warned away.
Hippy, what's the matter
with you?
What's the matter
with me? Nothing.
We're just in the middle of some
big-time international incident
like the Cuban missile crisis
or something.
Figured that out for yourself,
did you, Hip?
You know, we got Russian subs
creeping around.
Anything goes wrong down here,
they could say whatever
they want happened,
give the folks medals.
Relax, will ya?
You're making the women nervous.
Cute, Virgil.
You know, those SEALs
ain't telling us diddly.
Something is goin' on!
Come on, come on.
Hippy, you think
everything's a conspiracy.
Everything is.
Hurry up.
Coffey's splitting with flatbed!
I showed him
how to work the controls,
and they're outta here.
Didn't you tell him
we need it right now?
Yeah. He didn't
pay any attention.
-Where the hell is he taking it?
-I have no idea!
Shit!
Coffey! Come back!
We need the big arm
to unhook the umbilical.
There's a goddamn
hurricane coming!
LINDSEY: He switched off.
It's unbelievable.
(wind gushing)
Go back down!
Tell those men to get below
and stay there!
(groans)
We need to get unhooked
and get out of here now.
All right, do it then.
No problem, except your boys
went sightseeing with flatbed.
My people need flatbed
to get unhooked at their end.
Back in two hours.
Two hours?
We're gonna get
the shit kicked out of us
by our pal Fred in two hours.
-Okay, it's clear.
-It's all yours, sir.
Swing it away and drop it.
Check.
Okay.
Bypass the ground connection
on the separation sequencer.
Got it?
Separation sequencer
disconnected.
Remove explosive bolts
one through six
in counterclockwise sequence.
Check. Removing bolt one.
All right.
Let's get their gear off!
Then clear the sub.
We got to get it outta here!
Come on. Let's go.
Let's move it!
One Night, you're up.
Get ready to roll, baby.
Don't touch that.
Just back away.
Excusez-moi!
Hey, Coffey,
we are a little pressed
for time.
Prick.
This ain't no drill, slick.
Make me proud.
Piece of cake, baby.
(wind gusting)
BUD:
What's the problem, One Night?
All hell must be
breaking loose up there.
This cable's
pissing me off.
I can't get
a grip on it.
BUD: Well, keep trying,
baby, just keep trying.
Son of a bitch!
Shit!
We got a problem!
What's going on?
We're losing
number two thruster!
Bearing's going!
MAN: She's not going
to take the pressure!
It's not holding!
We're swinging out
of position here!
Goddamn it!
Ooh! Jesus.
Ah, shit!
The rig is moving!
Yeah,
I can see that.
Topside! Topside!
Pay out some slack.
We're getting dragged.
Down on number one winch!
BUD: We're getting dragged.
Down on one!
Bud, we're headed
right for the drop-off.
MAN: What the hell?
We just lost
all the topside feeds.
Shit! Get him on the UQC!
Bud!
We lost the crane!
Say again. What?
The crane!
We've lost the crane!
It's on its way
down to you!
All right, everybody!
Everybody, brace for impact!
(alarm blaring)
Close all the exterior hatches!
Let's move it! Let's go!
Go! Go! Go! Go! Go!
(alarm blaring)
Wait! Wait! Wait!
Get in here!
What the hell is
going on around here?
I don't know.
You two help
secure the rig.
Let's go.
One Night, One Night,
you hear me?
Get the hell out of there!
The crane's coming down!
(One Night grunts)
ONE NIGHT:
I'm okay. I'm clear, Bud.
(sonar pinging)
I've got it. It's headed
straight for us!
(pinging increases in tempo)
(sighs)
(all laugh)
Oh, shit.
Oh, no, no, no, no,
no, no, no, no, no.
LINDSEY: Oh, my God!
Bud!
Grab on to something!
(grunts)
Jesus!
Battery rooms front.
Let's go!
Cat, put that out!
Bud,
Yeah!
drillroom's flooding!
Get back down there!
Uhh! Go! I'll take
the battery room.
Jesus!
(alarm blaring)
Uhh!
(panting)
Shit.
Get out of there!
Close the door!
Seal the room!
Lindsey,
let's get out of here!
Whoa!
(squeaking)
(alarm blaring)
Let's get the hell
out of here!
Aah!
Let's go! Let's go!
Get the door!
Ah, Jesus!
(muffled):
Bud! Bud!
(thumping)
Philip,
cut the hose!
Cut the line
to the motor!
I can't open it
from out here!
Philip,
cut the hose!
(creaking)
Philip!
God.
(coughing)
(grunts)
Hey!
Come on, Sonny!
Hey, Cat! Cat!
Help me out, man!
Hang on!
(grunting)
The hose! Cut the hose,
the line to the motor.
Hurry up, man!
Come on, Cat!
Hurry!
Come on, Sonny,
help me out. Come on,
push!
Come on, Sonny!
Okay, let's go!
Come on, let's go!
We got to go, go, go!
Get out of here!
Come on! Move it!
Go, go, go, go,
go, go, go, go!
Get the hatch, Cat!
Get the hatch!
Will you get the hatch?
(heavy breathing)
You all right?
Everybody okay?
Yeah.
Son of a bitch.
Oh, man.
SONNY (over radio):
Benthic Explorer
Benthic Explorer,
this is Deep Core-2.
Do you read me?
Benthic Explorer,
this is Deep Core.
Do you read me? Over.
Forget it, Sonny.
They're gone, man.
Mayday! Mayday! Mayday!
Hey.
They're gone.
Hey, Jammer.
MAN: Shh! I got it.
I'll deal with this, all right.
I'll do it.
Do it yourself.
Find your buddy?
Ah.
-No.
-Tighter.
Brigman!
What?
I was under orders.
I had no choice.
How's it going, Cat?
What's the scoop, ace?
Well, I can get power
to this module and sub bay
if I reroute
these buses,
but I got to get
past the mains,
which are a total meltdown.
Bud, there won't be enough
to run the heaters.
In a few hours,
this place is going to be
as cold as a meat locker.
What about O2?
Yeah, well,
brace yourself.
If we close off
the sections we're not using,
we have about
maybe 12 hours' worth.
The storm's going to last
a lot longer than 12 hours.
Yeah, well, I can
maybe extend that, maybe.
There's some
storage tanks outboard
next to
the wrecked module.
I'll have to go
outside, though,
and tie on to them.
Hey, Linds.
-Linds.
-Yeah.
I'm glad you're here.
(sighs)
Yeah?
I'm not.
BUD (over radio):
Where are you now, Linds?
I'm under the starboard
tri-module.
Still with me, Hip?
HIPPY (over radio):
Right behind you, Linds.
How's it look?
LINDSEY: Well, you guys
really screwed up my rig.
There's a lot
of wreckage out here.
Well, don't get fouled.
Hit me with that
9/16ths, okay?
Yeah.
Thank you.
HIPPY: Come on.
Let's see those muscles.
Bingo. That's one.
Two for two.
Hey, hey.
Lindsey,
do you read me? Over.
Copy you, Hippy.
What's the matter?
Oh, shit. The power's
jacking around with us again.
Lindsey, come back.
I just lost video.
(audio fades)
Hippy,
do you copy?
Linds, you copy?
Oh, shit.
What the hell?
Hippy, do you copy?
Damn it.
Bud, do you copy?
Over.
I seem to be having
a problem here.
(whirring)
Shit.
Damn it.
(shutter clicking)
That's a great shot,
Lindsey.
Did you drop
your dive line?
No, come on, you guys.
Come on.
Now, that's the smaller one.
This is the smaller one here.
You can kind of see
how it's zigging around.
Yeah,
whatever it is.
I'm telling you
what it is.
You're just not
hearing me.
-Now, Lindsey--
-There is something
down there.
Something not us.
You could be
more specific.
-Something that zigs.
-Not us.
Not human.
Get it?
Something nonhuman
but intelligent.
A nonterrestrial intelligence.
-A nonterrestrial intelligence.
-LINDSEY: Yes.
NTIs! Oh, man,
that's better than UFOs!
Oh, but that works,
too, huh?
Underwater flying objects.
Are we talking
little space friends here?
Hell, yeah!
Hot rods of the Gods.
Right, Linds?
No, really.
It could be NTIs.
The CIA has known
about them forever.
They abduct people
all the time, man.
You know, Hippy,
do me a favor.
Stay off my side.
-Will you step
into my office, please?
-Certainly.
I--
Come here.
Jesus, Linds.
Bud, come on, something really
important is happening here.
I'm trying to keep
this situation under control.
I can't allow you to create
this kind of hysteria.
Who's hysterical?
Nobody's hysterical!
Shhh!
All I'm saying is
when you're hanging on
by your fingernails,
you don't go waving
your arms around.
Look, I saw something.
-I'm not going to
go in there and say...
-Shhh!
...I didn't see it
when I did. I'm sorry.
Please.
You are the most
stubborn woman I ever knew.
Yes, I am,
but I need you
to believe me right now.
Now, come on.
Look at me. Come on.
Am I stressed out?
Do I have any symptoms
of pressure sickness,
tremor, slurred speech?
No.
Bud, this is me,
Lindsey, okay?
You know me better
than anybody in the world.
Now watch my lips.
I saw these things.
I touched one of them,
and it wasn't some
clunky steel can
like we would build.
It glided.
It was the most
beautiful thing
I've ever seen.
Oh, God, I wish
you'd been there.
It was a machine.
It was a machine,
but it was alive.
It was like
a dance of light.
Please,
you have to trust me.
Now, I don't think
they mean us any harm.
I don't know how
I know that.
It's just a feeling.
(scoffs)
Geez. I'm supposed
to go on a feeling?
How can I go
on a feeling?
You think Coffey's
gonna go on a feeling?
We all see
what we want to see.
Coffey looks
and he sees Russians.
He sees hate and fear.
You have to look
with better eyes than that.
Please.
I can't, Linds.
I'm sorry.
Got it.
All right.
Come on.
A.J. squared-Away.
A little to the left.
What is that?
Oh, this is not happening.
Oh, man.
I'm shaking, man.
All right.
Wait, wait, wait.
And now...
here's MIRV!
Come on, man.
What else could it be?
Why bring it here?
It's got to be
some kind of emergency plan
to keep it away
from the Russians, right?
Look, look, they hot-wire
one of the nukes.
They use some kind
of detonator
that they brought,
then they stick it
back in the sub.
Fry the whole
thing up. Bam!
Slicker than snot.
I'm telling you,
and I'm not being paranoi--
Hi, Linds.
Linds! Will you
just wait a second?
Goddamn it!
If you don't do something
about it, I will!
Lindsey, we'll do
something about it!
Wait a second.
Lindsey.
What?
-Just stop and think
about this for a second.
-What?
(door opens)
You know,
you got some huevos,
bringing that thing
into my rig.
With all that's going on
up in the world,
you bring a nuclear weapon
in here!
Mrs. Brigman--
Does this strike anyone
as particularly psychotic,
or is it just me?
Mrs. Brigman,
you don't need to know
the details
of our operation.
It's better
if you don't.
You're right!
I don't need to know!
What I need to know is
that thing is off this rig!
Do you hear me,
Roger Ramjet?
You're becoming a serious
impediment to our mission.
Now you either do
an about-face
and walk out of here,
or I'll have you
escorted out.
I will not do
an about-face
and get out of here!
Who the hell do you think
you're talking to?
-(alarm rings)
-Emergency! Maintenance room B!
Emergency!
Everybody move it!
On the double!
Now!
In here! Come on!
We've got trouble!
Come on!
What's going on?
All right! All right!
ONE NIGHT: What's up?
What's happening?
All right.
You let her go, man. Do it.
Do it now!
Let her go.
The smartest thing
you ever did.
-Coffey, you son--
-Lindsey!
Cool it.
-What's the problem?
-Nothing.
We were just leaving.
Weren't we?
We don't need them.
We can't trust them.
We may have to take steps.
We're gonna have
to take steps.
Linds, I want you
to stay away from that guy.
I mean it.
The guy is gone.
Did you see his hands?
What? He's got
the shakes?
Look, he's operating
on his own.
He's cut off from
his chain of command.
He's showing signs
of pressure-induced psychosis,
and he's got
a nuclear weapon.
So as
a personal favor to me,
will you try
to put your tongue
in neutral
for a while?
I got to tell you,
I give this whole thing
a sphincter factor
of about 9.5.
Look, you can just punch
into his primary guidance chip
where you want him to go,
and he'll go there, right?
No. Bad idea,
Lindsey. Bad.
Why, Hip? Come on.
Because even if
it could take the pressure
at that depth, which
I don't think it can...
Yeah.
...without the tether,
you know what would happen
when it got down there?
It would just sit
like a-- Please.
like a dumb shit.
Something would have to pass
in front of the camera
for you to see anything.
I know, but we could
get lucky, right?
So we should go for it.
I really ought to talk
to Bud about this.
No. This is
between you and me.
We get proof, and then
we tell the others.
Hippy, look. If we
can prove to Coffey
that there aren't
Russians down there,
maybe he'll ease off
the button a little bit.
I got to tell you, man,
that guy scares me
more than anything
we're gonna find down there.
He's a goddamn,
A.J. squared-away,
jar-head robot.
All right. Give me
a couple hours.
I'll see what I can do.
Great. Thanks.
(snoring)
Virgil,
turn on your side.
(sonar pinging)
All right.
You're all set, big guy.
Hey, I told you to wipe
that grin off your face.
Good night,
little buddy.
(water dripping)
(gasps)
(softly):
Bud. Bud!
Bud, get up!
What?
Cat.
Cat!
Hey! God--
leave me alone.
Bud.
Okay. It's okay.
Sweet Christ almighty.
I think
it likes you.
It's trying
to communicate.
ONE NIGHT:
It's Bud.
That's wonderful.
It's me.
No, no, no, no, no.
Shhh! It's okay.
It's good.
ONE NIGHT:
What is it?
Is it alive?
BUD: Lindsey, no.
Seawater.
ONE NIGHT:
Man.
Come on. Come on!
-Hurry.
-BUD: Where the hell's
it going?
Huh?
LINDSEY: Hurry. I think
it's headed for "B" module.
Linds, you see it?
(all scream)
(screaming)
(pinging)
LINDSEY: So raise
your hand if you think
that was a Russian
water tentacle.
Lieutenant?
No? Well...
a breakthrough.
Hey, ace,
you done
impressing yourself?
No way that thing
could just be seawater.
They must have learned
to control water.
I mean,
at a molecular level.
You know, they can,
they can plasticize it.
They can polymerize it,
do whatever they want
to do with it.
They can put it
under intelligent control.
Maybe their whole technology's
based on that.
-LINDSEY: What?
-Controlling water.
HIPPY: Was it
the same thing
that you saw
the last time?
LINDSEY: No.
You know,
I don't think that
that thing you saw
was one of them.
What are you
talking about?
I mean, I don't think
it was an NTI.
I think it was like
their version of an ROV,
like Big Geek.
CATFISH: Hippy, you mean
they was just checking us out?
HIPPY: Yeah.
CATFISH: How come?
LINDSEY:
Curious, I suppose.
We're probably
the first people
they've ever seen.
It went straight
for the warhead,
and they think
it's cute.
(objects clattering)
You need to get
some sleep.
We have no way
of warning the surface.
And you know
what that means.
It means
whatever happens
is up to us.
Us!
(clicking)
(gasps)
Sniff something?
Did you, rat boy?
Hey, hey, hey!
Freeze!
Don't move!
That's right.
You okay, Hip?
They're using Big Geek
to take the bomb
to the NTIs.
What?
We set it up
to go right to them.
Oh, my God.
Take this.
We're going
to phase three.
What? We don't have
orders for that.
HIPPY: I programed
Big Geek to go down
to the bottom of the trench
and shoot some video.
Now they got the warhead
tied to it.
Coffey.
-BUD: Linds.
-Coffey-- No.
Come on.
Coffey, just think about
what you're doing, okay?
Just one minute. Just think
about what you're doing--
Get back!
This is something
I've wanted to do
since we first met.
(ripping)
Easy. Easy. Easy.
All right.
Into the kitchen, let's go!
Move, partner!
Get your damn hands
off of me!
I know the way.
Your boss is fixing
to pull the pin
on 50 kilotons!
And we're all
gonna be ringside!
He's having
a full-on meltdown!
What's the timer
set for?
-Three hours.
-Shut up. Don't talk.
Three hours.
We can't get to
minimum safe distance
in three hours.
We can't go
to phase three.
What about
these people?
Shut up. What's
the matter with you?
Everybody just stay calm.
The situation is
under control.
Anybody touches
that door, kill them.
Schoenick, your lieutenant's
about to make
a real bad career move.
The guy's crazier
than a shit-house rat!
LINDSEY: We're trying
to make contact!
Can't you see
he's lost it?
Shut up!
The shock wave
will kill us.
Quiet!
It will crush this rig
like a beer can.
Shut up, man!
What are you talking about?
-We've got to stop him.
-Shut up!
This is not
our mission.
We can't detonate
without orders.
LINDSEY:
Schoenick, please!
Schoenick, listen.
He's about to declare war
on an alien species
just when they're trying
to make contact with us!
Please!
I don't know.
I think I'm reaching him.
(scoffs)
Yeah.
(door opening)
Ho ho ho ho.
I'll be damned.
Jammer!
Is everybody okay?
ONE NIGHT:
Oh, man!
Don't move, jar face!
Look, I'm the least
of your problems.
-Take it easy, Hip.
-I'm all right.
How you feeling,
big guy?
I'm okay, Bud.
I just figured
I was dead back there
when I saw that angel
coming for me.
Uh...yeah, okay.
Yeah. Why don't you
tell us about it later?
Come on.
He's got it tied off
with something.
Come on. Ready?
We're not going
to be able to budge it.
Now what? This is
the only door to sub bay.
What are you doing?
I'm going to swim
to hatch six.
What?
I'm going to get inside,
and then I'm going
to open the door
from the other side.
Bud, this water
is freezing.
Then I guess you better
wish me luck, huh?
Wish us luck.
BUD: You coming along?
CATFISH: Looks that way.
All right, Cat.
Come on, Bud.
In case I don't die.
ONE NIGHT:
This is insane.
Come on, Bud.
Let's go, partner.
I ain't got all day.
(exhaling forcefully)
(creaking)
(gasps)
I got it.
(grunting)
We're gonna have to--
We're gonna have to go
to the moon pool.
It's the only way.
I can't.
I can't make it,
partner.
I'm sorry.
Okay.
Okay, Cat. You head
on back, all right?
(exhaling forcefully)
(clicking)
What is he doing?
He can't make it
to the door.
He's going to try
and take him out himself.
God, he couldn't be
that dumb.
That guy's
a trained killer.
No!
Coffey.
Coffey, listen.
(click)
Hey!
(Bud coughing)
(grunting)
(screaming)
Aah!
(choking, gasping)
Hey!
CATFISH: Bud,
you all right?
Get him, Cat!
He's locked it, Bud.
We got to get this
off of here.
Come on, help me.
Pull the gripper!
Pull it!
Cat, get the door.
Shit.
Come on.
Shoot! Shoot!
-Are you all right?
-Yeah.
The safety's on.
Safety's on!
Give me that.
(bullets pinging)
Come on, let's go!
Help me out!
Give me a hand.
Let's move it!
One Night,
what about Cab 1?
Ready to launch.
Go!
You're better
in these than I am.
-You got air?
-Come on. Come on.
You got air. You got air.
Shit!
(music plays on stereo)
(music stops)
LINDSEY:
Bud, get out of the way!
Shit.
Get in!
Hurry up!
I'm coming, baby.
Keep your panty hose on.
Are you okay?
Yeah.
Do you see Big Geek?
Right out in front.
-Oh, my God!
-Get after him.
Okay, okay, okay.
Get on the arm.
BUD: Stop. To the left.
Little more.
LINDSEY: You missed.
Try it again.
Steady. Steady. Steady.
Steady. Steady.
-Okay. Grab it!
-Yeah.
Got it!
Pretty slick, slick.
Hold it really steady.
Just-- just hold it still.
-Hold it still.
-I am. I am.
Aah!
Shit!
We lost Geek!
Where is he, Bud?
Do you see him?
I'll take a look.
He's coming up fast.
Step on it.
Shit!
Go to the right.
Swing to the right.
Shit.
BUD:
Keep moving, baby.
Come here.
That's right.
(grunting)
BUD:
Son of a bitch!
Hard left, baby.
Left, left, left!
Jesus Christ, lady.
Bud, if you think
you can do any better,
then you're
welcome up here.
Son of a bitch!
Is he right on us?
Yeah, he's right
on your ass.
Okay. Okay.
Where are you going?
Hang on.
(grunting)
(heavy breathing)
Aah!
LINDSEY (over radio):
Deep Core, This is Cab 1.
Do you read?
Deep Core, Deep Core,
this is Cab 1. Over.
I'm not getting
any answer...
and we're flooding
like a son of a bitch.
Yeah. You noticed?
You know, you did okay
back there, Virgil.
I was fairly impressed.
Yeah? Well,
not good enough.
We still got
to catch Big Geek.
Yeah? Well,
not in this thing.
Deep Core, Deep Core,
this is Cab 1. Over.
Try it again.
Deep Core, this is Cab 1.
We need a--
Aah!
You all right?
Yeah.
Well, that's that.
Yeah. Wonderful.
There's a light
coming from somewhere.
It's off to the right.
Yeah.
That's the rig.
It's a good 60,
70 yards, I'd say.
Well, they'll come after us.
Yeah, but it's gonna take them
a while to get here.
We got to get
this flooding stopped.
Can you see where
it's coming in?
Yeah. Can you hold
the lamp for me?
There's a busted fitting
behind this panel.
Problem is, I don't
think I can get to it.
You got any tools?
Uh, I don't know.
I'll have to look around.
Yeah? Well,
I looked already.
Goddamn it! All I need's
a goddamn crescent wrench.
Come on.
(grunting)
Son of a bitch!
Okay. Calm down, Bud.
Calm down.
-Okay.
Okay.
We got to get you
out of here.
How?
I don't know how.
All right. We've only
got one suit.
I know, but we've got
to come up with something.
Oh, my God!
I'm freezing!
Come here. Come here.
Give me your hands.
Listen. You're smart.
Think of something.
Can't you think of something?
Okay. Why don't you
swim back to the rig
and bring back
another suit?
That would take me
about 7, 8 minutes to swim,
get the gear, come back.
I wouldn't make it.
Look at this.
By the time I got back,
you'd be--
Okay, okay.
Let's look around.
Just look.
Oh, my God.
Is that working?
Shit.
All right. All right.
Bud, I'm getting cold.
Here.
You put this on.
No! No!
What are you doing?
Don't argue with me,
goddamn it! Just put it on.
No. Look, this is
not an option,
so just forget
about it, all right?
Lindsey, shut up! Shut up
and put this thing on.
-Look, will you be logical?
-Fuck logic!
For one second, please listen.
Just listen for one second.
Now, you've got
the suit on,
and you're a much better
swimmer than I am, right?
-Yeah, maybe.
-Right? Yes!
So I've got a plan.
What's the plan?
I drown, and you tow me
back to the rig.
No! No!
Yes. This water is only a couple
of degrees above freezing.
I go into
deep hypothermia.
My blood will go
like ice water, right?
My body systems
will slow down.
-They won't stop.
-Linds.
You tow me back,
and I can--
I can be revived
after maybe 10
or 15 minutes.
Lindsey, put this on.
You put it on.
No. It's the only way.
You just put this on.
Put this on.
You know I'm right.
Please.
It's the only way.
You've got all the s-stuff
on the rig to do this.
Put this on, Bud, please.
-This is insane.
-I know.
Oh, my God.
You okay?
It's the only way.
Here. Hold this.
Son of a bitch.
Hold on, Lindsey.
You can do this,
you know.
You can do this.
Oh, God, Lindsey. I--
I know. You can
tell me later.
LINDSEY:
Oh, God.
(sobbing)
This is maybe not
such a good idea.
Oh, my God!
Bud! No!
I can't, Bud!
Oh, Bud, I'm scared!
No!
I got him.
Where?
Oh, my God.
It's Lindsey.
BUD (over radio):
Deep Core.
Deep Core,
do you read? Over.
Yeah. We got you,
Bud. We're here.
Go to the infirmary.
Get the cart oxygen,
defib kit,
adrenaline and a 10 cc syringe,
some heating blankets.
You got all that?
Got it. Over.
Meet me at the moon pool,
and make it fast!
Now! Come on!
Let's go.
Hippy,
get the hot packs.
Got it.
Here he comes!
Get her up.
Watch her head.
ONE NIGHT:
I got it. I got it.
BUD:
Watch her feet.
Watch her head
coming down.
Watch her head.
CATFISH: Suck it out.
Clear it out.
Is she cleared?
Get the defib ready.
Hurry up, Cat.
Okay, okay. I got it.
-Okay?
-Yeah.
Three-one thousand,
four-one thousand, five.
Breathe.
One-one thousand,
two-one thousand,
three-one thousand,
four-one thousand--
No, no, no, no.
It won't work.
She's got to have bare skin,
or it won't work.
Three-one thousand,
four-one thousand, breathe.
CATFISH: Here.
Is that right?
Is this it?
-I've got it.
-Well, do it!
-All right.
-HIPPY: Breathe.
(defibrillator beeping)
Come on, zap her!
Clear!
Come on, baby.
Aw, Christ!
-Nothing.
-Breathe.
I'll check out 300.
Nothing.
Do it again, One Night.
Zap her again.
It's going. It's going.
It's charging.
Three-one thousand,
four-one thousand.
Charging,
charging, charging...
Clear!
BUD:
Is there anything?
ONE NIGHT:
No pulse.
Come on, baby.
It's charging.
One more time.
Zap her again.
Come on!
Clear!
God!
No pulse!
It's flat.
Goddamn, it's flat.
Three, four, five.
One thousand.
One, two, three four.
Breathe.
Three-one thousand.
Come on, baby.
One-one thousand,
Two-one thousand,
Three-one thousand,
four-one thousand.
Come on, baby.
Come on.
One-one thousand,
two-one thousand,
three-one thousand,
four-one thousand,
five-one thousand.
Come on, baby. Breathe.
Come on.
Two-one thousand.
-three-one thousand...
-Bud.
-four-one thousand.
Bud. Bud.
It's all over, man.
It's all over.
I'm sorry.
No pulse.
No!
No. She has
a strong heart!
She wants to live!
Come on, Linds.
Come on, baby!
Zap her again.
Do it!
-Charging.
-Do it!
Charging.
(beeping)
(long beep)
-Come on, baby. Come on, baby.
-Clear.
Clear!
Get out of here.
Come on, breathe, baby.
Goddamn it, breathe!
Goddamn it, you bitch,
you never backed away
from anything in your life!
Now fight!
Fight! Fight!
Right now!
Do it!
Fight, goddamn it!
Fight!
(inhales)
BUD: Fight!
Lindsey.
That's it, Lindsey.
That's it, Linds.
You can do it.
Come on back, baby.
Come on.
You can do it, baby.
(gasps then coughs)
Get her some air.
Easy. Breathe easy.
All right.
You did it, ace!
Yeah! Yeah!
You did it, baby.
She's breathing.
Make sure
her heart's okay.
Make sure her heart's
doing okay.
Big boys don't cry,
remember?
Hi, lady.
Hi, tough guy.
I guess it worked,
didn't it?
Yeah,
of course it did.
You're never wrong,
are you?
How you feeling, huh?
I've felt better.
What did
you do to me?
Next time,
it's your turn, okay?
Yeah.
Yeah, you got
that right.
MAN: Okay. These are so
your eyes can focus
in the breathing fluid.
How's that feel?
There it is.
If you can't see, you can't
disarm the bomb, right?
Okay, with this
much weight,
you're going to fall
like a brick.
We've still got
about an hour,
so you should get there
in plenty of time.
When you get down there,
all you got to do is
cut one wire,
drop the weights,
and come on home.
Hand me that wrench
over there, will you?
Maybe I ought
to check and see.
Yeah, that's
a good place.
There.
That's loose.
I'll fix that up.
Bud, you don't have
to do this.
Somebody's got
to do it.
It doesn't have
to be you.
Who, then?
So I can hear you,
but I can't talk,
right?
The fluid prevents the larynx
from making sound. Excuse me.
You'll feel
a little strange.
Yeah? No shit.
I got to warn
you all,
I'm a pretty
lousy typist.
(chuckles)
Moment of truth.
Come on,
let's go.
Let's go.
Careful. Easy.
In the front,
clamp it.
-Okay.
-Thank you.
Got it.
Set.
MAN: Set. Clamp?
Okay. Let's rock 'n' roll.
Crack it.
Headset.
Headset, please.
Okay.
Relax now, Bud.
Just relax.
Bud.
-MAN: Relax now, Bud.
-Watch me.
-LINDSEY: Okay. Watch me.
-MAN: Relax.
-LINDSEY: Watch me.
-MAN: Okay. Doing fine.
Now, don't hold your breath.
Take it in.
Just let yourself
take it in.
Take it in. That's it.
-CATFISH: Oh, man.
-MAN: Don't hold
your breath now.
Take it in.
There you go.
Don't hold your breath.
Take it in. That's it.
There you go.
Bud!
This is not normal!
This is normal!
It'll pass in a second.
It's perfectly normal.
-This is normal?
-Perfectly normal.
We all breathed liquid
for nine months, Bud.
Your body will remember.
That's it.
Perfectly normal.
CATFISH: Christ,
he's breathing.
Give me that.
Can you hear me?
There he goes.
-Yes? Yes, okay.
-He's got it. That's it.
Bud, try your keypad.
(chuckles)
MAN: Right.
I already have.
-LINDSEY: Okay.
-Great.
Let's go.
Okay.
That's okay.
I got it.
MAN: Okay, Hippy.
You done yet?
-LINDSEY: Hold on, Jammer.
-CATFISH: Okay, Bud.
Easy. Easy.
Watch out.
Watch the side.
Watch the back.
LINDSEY:
Careful.
I rigged in
Little Geek's chip,
the same as Big Geek!
It should take you
straight there!
All you have to do
is hang on!
What's his depth?
3,200 feet.
Your depth
is 3,200 feet.
You're doing fine.
You better watch out
for crane wreckage.
You should be almost to it.
4,800 feet.
It's official.
Yeah.
Bud, according
to Monk here,
you just set a record
for the deepest
suit dive.
Bet you didn't think
you'd be doing this
when you got up
this morning, huh?
One mile down.
Still grinning.
8,500 feet.
8,500 feet, Bud.
Everything okay?
Ask him about
pressure effects--
tremors,
vision problems, euphoria.
Ensign Monk wants to know
how you feel.
It's starting. It hits
the nervous system first.
Keep talking, Lindsey.
Let him hear your voice.
Okay, Bud. Your depth
is 8,900 feet.
You're doing fine.
No, Lindsey.
Talk to him.
Bud...
there are some...
some things
I need to say.
It's hard for me,
you know.
It's not easy being
a cast-iron bitch.
It takes discipline
and years of training.
A lot of people
don't appreciate that.
Jesus, I'm sorry
I can't tell you these
things to your face.
I have to wait
till you're
alone in the dark,
freezing, and there's 10,000
feet of water between us.
Coming up
on the big ten thou.
(glass cracks and shatters)
12,000 feet.
Jesus, I don't believe
he's doing this.
Please. Shut up.
What's wrong with you?
(exhales)
Bud, how are you doing?
Bud?
He's losing it.
Talk to him.
Keep him with us.
HIPPY:
Coming up on 16,000.
No, B-Bud,
it's the pressure, all right?
You have to listen
to my voice.
You have to try.
Concentrate, all right?
Just listen to
my voice, please.
17,000 feet.
Christ almighty,
this is insane.
Bud? I'm not
getting anything.
(glass shatters)
-Whoa, whoa, whoa!
Oh, come on! No, no!
-LINDSEY: What?
Little Geek just folded.
Jesus!
He can still
make it.
Bud...
I know how
alone you feel...
alone in all that
cold blackness.
But I'm there
in the dark with you.
Oh, Bud,
you're not alone!
I'm with you.
I'll always be
with you, Bud.
I promise that.
How you doing,
partner?
You still with us?
Come back.
You talk to us,
buddy boy.
Come on.
Bud. Talk to me, Bud.
Now, come on.
You hanging in there?
Just-- You have
to talk to me, Bud.
Please. I need to know
if you're okay.
(sighs)
LINDSEY: You see--
You see a light.
What kind of light, Bud?
He's hallucinating badly.
-MAN: He made it.
-Oh, my God.
Oh, man.
Okay, Bud.
We'll go
step by step.
Remove the detonator housing
by unscrewing it
counterclockwise.
All right, Bud.
You have to cut
the ground wire,
not the lead wire.
It's the blue wire
with the white stripe.
Not, I repeat,
not the black wire
with the yellow stripe.
(laughing)
Yes!
Quiet! Quiet!
Save your air!
Bud, give me a reading
off your liquid oxygen gauge.
What?
It took him 30 minutes
just to get down there!
Bud, do you hear me?
You drop your weights
and start back now, Bud!
That gauge
could be wrong!
Do you hear me?
Just drop your weights
and start back now.
Your gauge
could be wrong!
You drop your weights
and start back now!
No, you won't stay there!
Do you hear me?
You drop your weights.
You can breathe shallow.
Do you hear me?
Bud, please!
Listen to me, please!
Goddamn it, you dragged me back
from the bottomless pit.
You can't leave me here
alone now, please.
Oh, God, Virgil, please.
Please.
I love you.
(gasps deeply)
(coughs)
Howdy.
Uh...how you guys doing?
MAN (over radio):
Deep Core, do you read?
This is Benthic Explorer. Over.
Do you hear,
Deep Core?
Deep Core,
do you read?
Do you read me,
Deep Core?
Deep Core,
do you read?
This is Benthic Explorer. Over.
Hell, yes! We read.
Good of you to join us.
Copy, Deep Core.
Hey, I've got them!
CATFISH: How's that storm
going up there?
Well, it's strange.
It just sort of blew itself out
all of a sudden.
Well, hell, son,
you'd better get
a line down to us.
We're in moderately
poor shape down here.
We lost seven people,
including Bud,
and we're about out
of O2,
so whatever
you're gonna do,
you better do it fast.
CATFISH: You boys make up
your mind
how to get us
out of here yet?
They're talking about flying in
a DSRV from Norfolk.
-Right?
-It'll come in
to Guantanamo on a C-133.
MAN: Okay, okay,
I understand that,
but how long is
that going to take?
Hey.
Hey! It's Bud!
MAN: That's impossible.
No, it's not.
MAN:
Do you hear, Deep Core?
Yes!
Deep Core, do you read?
Do you read--
Wa-Wait. We got
a message from Bud.
Bud?
What's it say?
Uh, here.
Oh, God. It says,
"Virgil Brigman back
on the air."
HIPPY: Yes!
"Have some new friends
down here."
(rumbling)
What the hell's
going on?
One Night,
get to sonar.
Good God almighty.
Fellas...I'm getting some
awful big readings here.
Something's coming
up the wall.
-What is it?
-Whatever it is,
it's major!
Something's definitely
going on down there.
Active is pinging back
something really big.
It's huge, and it's coming up
right underneath us.
Where?
It's everywhere.
There! Starboard bow.
This is the Benthic Explorer.
♪ ♪
(creaking)
There! Look! Look!
LINDSEY:
Help, Cat.
(seagulls squawking)
We should be dead.
We didn't decompress.
They must have done
something to us.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, I think
you could say that.
Ha ha ha ha!
Ha! Hooo!
Hi, Brigman.
Hi, Mrs. Brigman.
♪ ♪
Captioned by Point.360.